PROPOSED TITLE

AUTHOR
Brian M. Mbaabu

OVERVIEW
An underwater expedition deep in the seas of the Atlantic Ocean goes horribly wrong. Her coworker is violently killed by a shark and the blood left in the water attracts the rest of its school. Elizabeth Matthews finds herself amidst the swarming sharks with her oxygen running out. Yet beyond all odds, the sharks that had set out to kill her, end up saving her life.  
Years later, Dean, Luke and Michael (who is a descendent of the Lwanda Magere) are teenagers, each with their own dark pasts. They have joined campus having become friends after a death-defying situation brought them together. Their friendship is rocky from the start and Luke, being partly responsible, suggests they go on a camping trip. 
The events that follow involve them uncovering a major conspiracy during their trip involving bribery, poaching, kidnapping and corruption all with motive. Being faced by such a quandary not only strengthens their friendship but forces them to evolve in more ways than one. Doing so, puts them on the cusp of understanding their existence. All the while, the book makes references of a society still in existence that is as old as civilization itself… at least in this reality.

CATEGORY
Young adult science Fiction, fantasy literature
 
MARKET
Primary: The book is capable of reaching an international market but locally, it is meant to target the 9 million youth living in Kenya. It gives the readers a much-needed injection of Sci-Fi that has been largely missing in the market. It does this by referencing great heroes in the nation’s cultures such as Koitalel Arap Samoei, Kimnyole Arap Turukat, Lenana and Lwanda Magere and providing an inclination of how these warriors gained their famed abilities.
Secondary: Students in high school can be inspired by the spotlight the book shines on the geological marvel that is Kenya as well as the impact its traditional warriors have on the world building of the book. The book also shows great character development and the literally styles in use can be studied as a set book.
Minor market: There are millions of people who do not conform to any beliefs. The story takes into account three of the major beliefs with the largest followings and creates a story that incorporates all three leading to the creation of the reality of this world.  

PURPOSE AND NEED
There exist a number of publications and literally works of fiction by many prominent writers in the country. Many of them have inspired the author as he read the works that depicted not only traditional life before and after the colonial era but more importantly the core concepts and moral lessons that have been passed down in generations since and that are still prevalent in our own society.
The works have gained enormous recognition around the world majorly due to the unique perspective that Kenyan writers are able to provide. However, the works (fiction they may be) at times lack an element of fantasy and follow a path that largely conforms to the way of life of traditional communities and creates a story gripped by the customs that were majorly practiced during the time. This is in addition to the impact the colonial period and the struggle for independence had to not only the people but their traditions. 
Around the world, there exists a huge market for fictional work that centers around fantasy and more importantly Sci-Fi. From the works of Marvel and DC comics in the US to young adult books such as Harry Potter in the UK or even animated works popular in Asia (mostly Japan). The viewers and readers flock to them because the reality, as flawed as they may at times be, gives them the escape from the harsh reality that life can at times be. Most of the listed countries have been developed for the past few centuries and despite that, they have been able to nurture and grow the concepts revolving around super powered beings despite them not being prevalent in their recent histories.
Yet Kenya is awash with such culture with even the legend of Lwanda Magere having only existed as recently as 18th century. There are also numerous tales from different communities that illustrate how their tribal leaders would use strange abilities to resist the colonialists when they came to attack. They did so by either using great strategic feats or even prophetic abilities that enabled them to foretell the future.
Therefore, given the richness in our tradition, there should exist numerous works based in the country that make use of such culture. The author’s work will manage to do so by also enlisting the unique features that are present in the country that would make such a thing a possibility i.e. the Great Rift Valley.
UNIQUE ANGLES
In this book, the author:
1.	Has a great approach to world building as most of the scenes in the book are based from real life experiences.
2.	Shows character growth and exhibits how people are able to move on from their dark pasts with the help of a good social circle around you.
3.	Properly outlines concepts related to different religions and scientific theories as he is well versed in both.
4.	Builds around a logical concept that outlines the geological marvel that is the Great Rift Valley and the geological processes leading to its formation that make the story stick.
5.	Presents an encouraging flow to the story and character backgrounds that can be relatable with millions of readers.
6.	Tries to imbue elements of fantasy that can not only be motivational but most importantly inspire young and adult readers to tell their own stories.

PROMOTION OF THE BOOK
I am young but my time has allowed me to build important networks that can help me in the promotion of the novel to the target audience. If need be, I would be willing to:
•	Start a website to promote my book.
•	Use social media to gather followers and gain attention to the work.
•	Attend professional conferences and promote the book there.
•	Make myself available to radio and television, if necesary.

COMPETING BOOKS
There are no books in the local market that stem an entire fictional story from the concept of evolution spanning for millions of years yet at the same time trying to add on the concept of religion and reincarnation to make the story possible.  Few local writers do have fictional and fantasy novels on shelves that have a local setting and base characters in a world they are able to manifest mysterious abilities. However, the furthest the stories are set are as far back as only the 15th or 16th century. Even then, the concept that the world they exist in is one of magic and wonder is already accepted and they do not try and source an origin of how that may have come to happen.
There are a few titles that take advantage of the rich tradition our history provides:
WIZARD OF THE CROW by Ngugi wa Thiong’o (Harvill Secker, 2006). A landmark postcolonial novel that uses satire and caricature to create a story about a fictional nation in its transition from the white rule to that of a megalomaniac dictator. While compelling and easy on the eyes, the book uses caricature to describe some of its characters that pushes the narrative away from the realms of reality. Mine conforms to the everyday life of teens while adding elements of fiction and fantasy that correspond to folklore and legends shared in many communities.
AKATA WITCH BY Nnedi Okorafor (Viking Books for Young Readers, 2011). The story follows a young Albino girl who discovers her magical prowess and is sent to catch a serial killer. The book does little to elucidate on the origin of the mystical island the story takes place in, Leopard Knocks. Only that it was built on an island conjured by ancestors.
KINTU by Jennifer Nansubuga (Oneworld Publications, 2018). Surrounds the beliefs and myths related to curses and how it affects a family 250 years down the line – but it starts from a midpoint where such beliefs were prominent and doesn’t illustrate how they came to be and why they would manifest as they did. However, my book will source an origin of how the world came to be as it revolves around the actions of two characters and their impact that is felt more than sixty million years into the future.
  
Other international literally works include:
Last and First Men by Olaf Stapledon (Methuen, 1930). One of the most underrated works of fiction, it describes the history of humanity from the present onwards across two billion years and eighteen human species of which we are the first. The book focuses on the future of humanity and is suspect to conjecture. My book on the other hand focuses on the distant past and uses concepts already outlined to create a compelling and believable story.
Sapiens A Brief History of Humankind by Yuval Harari (Harper, 2017). A book from a renowned historian that gives a narrative of humanity’s origin from a biological and historical point of view. Most of the work is factual and elements of fiction are meant to better explain how humanity evolved from early man to sapiens. The book is written from an atheist point of view and does not dabble in any fantasy. However, mine will take into account this work and add elements of fantasy and fiction that will appeal to millions of readers regardless of faith.

OTHER DETAILS
•	Format: Hardcover as well as e-book
•	Word Count: 134,300
•	Page Count: 260 (A4 format)
•	Deadline: One month after a signed contract

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Brian Mbaabu spent four years at the University of Nairobi studying a Bachelor’s of Science course in Petroleum Geoscience where he was graduated top of his class with 1st class honors. A course that looks at the conceptual and practical approach in the extraction of natural resources (hydrocarbons) from the subsurface, Brian has an adept understanding of the earth and the processes that are involved in its formation.
Brian has also written papers that require the understanding of not only the formation of hydrocarbons, a process that takes tens of thousands of years, but also the identification of structural configuration deep within the earth’s surface that would make its discovery possible. This is essential in the writing of the book as the origins, that were earlier discussed, revolve around these core concepts that make the story not only possible but logical in a sense.
Brian is also a creative writer having worked with clients online as a freelancer and has a wide range of diversity as he has self-taught skills in graphic design and programming that have been used in the creation of ads for marketing purposes as well as software applications; one of which is an online news platform for reading articles and blogs.
Despite the views that may be presented in the book, Brian is a Christian having being raised as one. The core concepts shared in the book are but an amalgamation of walking two different paths and being open minded in matters that come to the origin of life. Brian was able to properly understand the concepts involved in evolution and the events during and leading to it that date as far back as four billion years before as well as the Christian beliefs that are widely accepted and write a compelling story that takes both into account to make possible. 

CHAPTER SUMMARY
PROPOSED OUTLINE
[Untitled – endorsements of this book]                                                                          1 page
[Untitled – quotes from writers that inspired the author]                                           2 pages
Table of contents                                                                                                                2 pages

Prologue
Elizabeth and her partner are conducting an investigation in the Atlantic Ocean based on reports they received of a strange sighting. It’s a long shot but what was meant to be a routine checkup, ends up being a deadly scene whose effects rippled throughout the years and in the book as well.

Chapter 1                                                                                                                             20 pages
This chapter introduces Mr. Rabinovitch whose memories had been lost and altered to make him believe that he had been involved in a car accident that caused the death of his cousin. He is now married to his wife for the past two years and is an unhappy man working at a dead-end job in an insurance company. 
His entire life changes when he meets two visitors in the dead of the night that not only bring back his memories but, in their request, give him and his wife something he had never though he would have ever had. One of the visitors turns out to be a twin sister he had forgotten he had.

Chapter 2: A Date is Set                                                                                                    20 pages
More than sixteen years have passed since Mr. Rabinovitch received the two visitors and his life was changed forever. The story now turns to the three main characters in the book. Dean was born and raised in the UK, Luke is the son of an American senator and Michael an adopted child. They are now almost done with their first year in campus and all are still facing their own demons from their past. 
Their friendship has been rocky from the start due to the circumstances of how they met and Luke suggests a camping trip to Hell’s gate in a bid to try and repair it.  

Chapter 3: Easter Beckons                                                                                                 10 pages
This chapter is bit of slice of life as it illustrates the time they spent in their university and the normal day to day activities that students have to deal with. The day for their scheduled trip draws closer and closer and the interactions between the characters shows the scars that not only each own but as well as the awkwardness that has been prevalent in their friendship. It also introduces a new main character, Alexis Kihoro, who is to feature later in the story.

Chapter 4: The First Sign                                                                                                    15 pages        
This chapter introduces the first inclination that the story won’t be one with a happy ending but the characters are yet to know that. Dean is abruptly woken up from a dream that he could not make much sense of and all he remembers is a blinding golden light that startled him. He brushes it aside as he is immediately distracted by the preparation for the camping trip they would be leaving for on the day.
They go to meet Michael where after months of inquisition, Dean finally finds out something about Michael (who has been more than reluctant to share about his personal life) as he recaps his scuffle with the SOWU (Students Organization of Woefare Union).

Chapter 5: A Chance Meeting                                                                                           13 pages
The trio set off on their four-day trip to happen over Easter where Luke’s tendencies into escapism are brought to light as he remains inebriated for most of the chapter. The chapter introduces other aspects that will later be prevalent including the presence of the many geothermal plants in the region and one in particular that is somehow set up on private land in a national park.
Dean is also better reacquainted with Alexis whom he coincidentally runs into as they check in.

Chapter 6: The New Guests                                                                                                 20 pages
This chapter could also be referred to as the second sign as it acts as a sequel to the inclinations of a strange turn in the story. For the second time, Dean is startled awake by another series of dreams with a very similar ending. And just as before, he awakes with no memory of it except the bright light.
However, the chapter is aptly named as it centers around the introduction of four new characters in the book: Kong, Lulu, Scarface and Rafiki. They come about due to the world building aspect of the book where the trio now begin to grow accustomed to the environment the park provides.

Chapter 7: Stalactites or is it Stalagmites                                                                            10 pages
This chapter introduces one of the main unique points of view the book offers. Hell’s gate National Park is more than a reserve for animals. It is also a great geological marvel with many features as a result of millions of years of formation. 
Dean, Luke and Michael spend the day with Alexis and her friend as they had planned to and it helps in not only forming an important bond between them, Dean and Alexis especially, but also begins to explaining the core concepts of the geological processes that are essential to understand for later in the book.

Chapter 8: The Missing Tale                                                                                                    17 pages   
This chapter hints to the first of many vices that will be explored in the book. It is an outlook of the world around the characters as it builds up to the main antagonist of the story. Half of the chapter is centered away from the main characters and it gives more depth to Kong, Lulu and especially Scarface as it sets to understand more about them and their daily life in the park.
New characters are also introduced (three of four mercenaries), who are responsible in doing the main antagonist’s bidding.

Chapter 9:  The Tipping Point                                                                                                  17 pages
Dean, Luke and Michael awake to find the most gruesome of scenes near the camp site. Blood is splattered all around the edge of it, they can hear pained moans and in the distance is a disheveled and very injured Scarface.      
This chapter is meant to give the characters a dose of the harsh reality around them and in doing so, it dislodges to the surface the past and demons they have tried to keep buried within them. This begins the character building of the book and as a result they are all able to accept the past that bound them together and come out not as friends but brothers.
The chapter also alerts the characters to the evils that seem to lead up to the geothermal plant in the private land just beyond their campsite. They not only uncover inclinations of bribery but more plainly, watch a kidnapping unfold before them.

Chapter 10: The First Meeting                                                                                                10 pages
This chapter does well to expose the vices and impunity that the geothermal plant has been able to operate with. Dean and his friends are faced with a quandary. They just watched their friends being kidnapped and from the evidence that availed itself in the park during their stay, realize that not only do they have to save them, but they would have to do so themselves as no help would be forthcoming to them.
Deprived of time and almost driven mad by the tough prospect ahead of them, Dean finds himself thinking back to the elusive first meeting between the three. Doing so gives him the much-needed clarity and composure to suggest the most daring of plans to infiltrate the plant and save their friends.       

Chapter 11: The Frozen Lake                                                                                                      20 pages
This is a dark chapter. For the third time, the story once more deviates from the main characters and this time focuses entirely on the main antagonist, Professor Damien Matthews. A Nobel Prize Nominee believed to have invented a reagent that could have as significant an impact as that of the wheel. The chapter gives his backstory and the motivation behind his illegal dealings with the plant.
The Professor has a deep dark secret that has made him cold and set him on the path he finds himself in. He has also made acquaintance with representatives of an old civilization but has no recollection of it. All of it stemming from when he came across the frozen lake and all rooted to the death of his wife.

Chapter 12: Patience Pays but not for the Impatient                                                            10 pages
This chapter continues to follow the Professor’s point of view as it not only introduces the steps he has taken to make his operation possible but more importantly, it gives an insight to the layout of the plant as it follows his progress within it and explain all the various features to do with geothermal energy and the processes that make it work.
In the background, he is brought to terms with insubordination in his security detail as one of his mercenaries Tony, who is more than anxious for the operation to be completed, jumped the gun and kidnapped two girls. His motive is to bring the operation to a hasty end so he may return to his homeland.

Chapter 13: The Hidden Door                                                                                                  20 pages
Mountains are there to be climbed, or so it is said. Much time has passed and the daunting prospect still remains ahead of them. Michael remains unfazed but Dean and Luke, who on any day have much trouble going up a hill, find it difficult to overcome the obstacle they are to face. This chapter centers around their infiltration, despite Luke’s reluctance, into the plant in a bid to save their friends.
It continues their learning curve as in the process they get to know more about Michael than they had in the previous year they’ve been friends. As they do, they come across a hidden door that begins to explain the secrecy that has surrounded the plant.

Chapter 14: Going down?                                                                                                        10 pages
This chapter introduces the drilling site that is the final scene of the book. The plan was successful and the trio find themselves at the point of no return. One where they realize that they may have bitten off more than they could chew. They are now a stone’s throw away from their objective but to do so, they would have to get past a very watchful and difficult to fool mercenary who stands in their way.

Chapter 15: Never Meet Your Heroes                                                                                    20 pages
This chapter finally introduces the protagonists to the main antagonist, Professor Damien Matthews. Through team work and good coordination, the trio were able to overcome the mercenary who is shocked to find that his abilities don’t seem to affect them. They would have been able to escape but only find Alexis in captivity and Maya still missing. In their efforts to execute yet another plan, they are captured before it comes to complete fruition.
Dean comes face to face with the Professor, a man who he considered his hero and now has their lives in his hands. He tries to buy them sometime and by doing so discovers the conspiracy and reason behind the secret operation within the plant. 

Chapter 16: Atelic Voluentigeon                                                                                             30 pages
This is the final chapter of the book where after a series of events the characters find themselves in a dire situation with only two paths ahead of them. Either death or evolution. The characters choose their path and in doing so, some disappear while others are made to evolve in more ways than one.

Acknowledgments                                                                                                                      2 pages
About the author                                                                                                                        1 page

SAMPLE CHAPTER 
PROLOGUE


She took a deep breath.
It was chilly all around her. 
And even though it was midday, the light could only reach so far. But she could still see well enough. A nyctophobic. But that was something she had had to overcome after years at the job. She loved what she did and no crippling phobia was going to take that away. Not especially after she had worked this hard to get here. After a year, she had been able to get past it. It had been five years since. He stopped to examine something on the wall. The anxiety still gripped her every once in a while. Especially now. She closed her eyes whenever it did and tried to think of something pleasant. Her mind drifted back to a few days before. When she was figuring out what to get him. She brushed her hand along the wall of rock beside her. It was different but it made remembering much easier.
Her third-year anniversary was coming up and she’d been stumped. All the books said to get leather but she couldn’t. Not with his allergy. She stretched out her other hand as far as she could but the wall on the other side was too far. Not like in Iceland. That’s where she was in her mind. Trying to ignore the darkness around her. 
Their work took them far across the world. Far from each other. Yet that was the first time they happened to be stationed in the same place at the same time. Coincidence? Perhaps. Or maybe it was just the universe cutting them some slack. She didn’t overthink it, just lived in the moment. He was surprised of course. Even though she had called beforehand to tell him she would be working there. But she couldn’t blame him. That was the first time they had seen each other in three months. A lot can happen in that time. She hadn’t known how to tell him before. It had taken her a while to find out herself and even then, it didn’t feel like over the phone news. She was happy she didn’t have to do much of the talking when they set eyes on each other.
Since then, he had stuck to her like glue and constantly made excuses. Especially when he found out her next assignment. Said that tagging along would be important for his research and he could collect valuable data. But she knew he was full of it. 
He was obviously worried about her and the dangers of the job. Not that it was an issue before. But things weren’t as simple as before. This would be her last job before she took a leave for a few months. Parenting would be hard work. Perhaps I could start a writing career, she thought to herself. 
Back to Iceland. Where was I? Oh, right. The gift. It had been difficult to find the time to sneak out and buy him something. Work kept her busy. When she wasn’t working, they spent the rest of their time together. She couldn’t ask for some time alone to go to the nearby town. That would have been selfish. Especially after she had kept the news from him for all those months. She had no choice but to get him the present during work time. Besides, knowing him, he would have much preferred this over anything else. And the best thing was, despite him tagging along, she had done it right under his nose. And he didn’t have a clue.
The inside of her eyelids lit up abruptly. She opened them and stared right at a flashlight. The rock beside her was illuminated as the light shifted from her. He was jerking his head to the side impatiently. It was time to go. Luiz was done with his examination and wanted them to keep moving. They moved and the area around her got brighter and brighter.
Luiz wasn’t happy. They had yet to reach the target zone. She was at fault for that. Iceland had taken a few days longer than it was meant to be. They had decided to make a detour, on her insistence, just before they set out given the significance of the location. Luiz was adamant about not going. The detour to Thingvellir is a waste of time, he said, there’s no way we’re going to that park and you’re not going to change my mind.
They spent the following night at some cottages in Thingvellir. Her husband had tagged along as she knew he would. 
Another stop. This time Luiz was examining a feeding frenzy. The remains of a long since dead animal was being devoured by the life around it. It looked recent. The darkness was less here than before. She closed her eyes once more.
It was the clearest stream she had ever been in. And when she stretched out both her arms, she could feel the rock underneath them. She had done it. She was now among the few organisms in millions of years to have pulled off such a feat. She was in two continents yet at neither at the same time. No, not a riddle. Just the beauty of geology. Damien would love it. He always liked a brain teaser. 
In Thingvellir, Iceland, a few meters below sea level she had been floating in the gap between two continental plates. Under her left hand she had Europe. Under her right North America. Luiz, who she had got to tag along, was floating a few meters in front of her. Bubbles frothed out of his mouth piece as he stared daggers at her, his fingers drumming the side of his thigh. She nodded at him. Reluctantly he lifted the Nikon camera that he’d strapped around his neck and took the photo. All she had to do now was get it processed and framed. 
This time it was a tap on the shoulder. The flashlight above her visor illuminated him in the darkness as did his her. He must be furious. She could tell. The fingers returned to the side of his thigh as he drummed them impatiently. It was his tell. Time to move on once more. No more need for visualization. After a few kicks, they were out of the caves and the area around them was more that bright enough to see. It was a greenish cyan hue around them. They were in the Atlantic Ocean, a few meters below sea level. The area around them was full of life. The seaweed and phytoplankton swayed to the underground currents only disturbed by the fish and crustaceans that made their way through them. 
They must have all been drawn to the large carcass they had left behind in the cave. Just below her she could see two clown fish fighting within the green. Or were they male and female? She didn’t have a chance to find out. Luiz was already on the move. He wasn’t one to be taken with the beauty of nature. 
Did he really think such a thing could exist? Really? She thought to herself as she followed. Unfortunately, it wasn’t her call to make. They were only here because some fishermen reported seeing something strange in the area. The real question was, what the hell were they doing fishing out here? They were miles off the coast. Almost smack dab in the middle of the ocean, between Europe and North America. The actual continents. 
They must have been whale hunters.
But Luiz didn’t seem too concerned about it. Once he had heard what they had to say, he didn’t think to inquire. She kicked back and forth and the flippers attached to her feet helped propel her forward. They were into the open. Swimming past a smack of jellyfish. She’d look into their activities and report them to the authorities. That would be later. For now, they had a squid to find.
She was skeptical. Despite the enthusiasm Luiz seemed to have, Elizabeth couldn’t help but wonder why he would have taken the fishermen’s word for it. But as a marine biologist, she wasn’t going to miss out on this. It could have been the find of the century. So, she wasn’t too sure how the small spear gun Luiz held in his left hand was going to help. She knew it was a precaution in case they got too close. But how was that supposed to keep a hundred-foot cephalopod at bay?... If it was true.
They swam for a few minutes, slowly ascending within the depths. It was getting brighter with every inch they swam. But it was still a green murk around them. The heavy concentration of salt made it hard to see more than a few meters ahead. At the very top she could barely make out a dark shape on the surface. Damien was still waiting impatiently on the ship for them to resurface. Above it, the moon shimmered brightly. She stopped.
Something wasn’t right.
They had been swimming for a few minutes and it was only now that she realized it. The ocean was vast. The second largest in the planet but it was too quiet. All the life that had been around them had all but disappeared. Not that she could have heard them but she definitely didn’t see anything.
Luiz noticed and turned back. His hands stretched out wide puzzled by the hold up. The darkness moved behind him. It was over in a second. She didn’t even have a chance to raise her hand, point and scream. The spear gun he had been holding fell slowly. Its spear still in the ammunition, never shot, and the finger of his severed arm attached to the trigger. The water wasn’t as green anymore.
They both screamed; one out of pain, the other out of shock. Both out of fear as they stared at the stump that was his left arm. It gushed out his arm before disappearing into the green. Its concentration decreasing as it fused into the ocean water as many things had done before. From waste to gold to dust and this time …blood. The darkness moved once more and this time it was more clinical. His head disappeared behind an assortment of grey, fins and a large furiously shifting caudal fin. 
She stood there frozen to the spot watching as her partner was torn apart. It was getting difficult to breath. She only realized that the mouth piece of her scuba suit had fallen out of her mouth. She grabbed it and put it back. The oxygen tank strapped to her back was depleting much faster than it had with each breath she took. Deep long shuddering breaths.
The shark was now edging away and slowly turning towards her. She didn’t think to stop and check whether Luiz would miraculously still be alive. The surface was more than a dozen meters above her. She’d never be fast enough. Below her, she could see something still falling slowly into the darkness. Without a second though she launched for it.
The shark narrowly missed her and she felt a slight tag behind her. It was still out of reach as she stretched out her hand. She peddled her feet until her fingers were inches away. The spear was pointing right at her and she could now clearly see the severed arm still attached to it. Only part of his forearm remained. The rest of it was somewhere above her. Either in the water, or in the bowels of the shark that she could feel hovering behind her. Still working on instinct, she shoved the thought aside as her hands closed in on the shaft of the spear gun.
She turned around and as she guessed, it was bearing towards her. Ready to head-but her once more.
Long pectoral fins, a thick stout body and the blunt snout that aptly named it. She’d already classified it with just the one glance. Don’t let it grab your arm, she thought as the bull shark edged closer with every flick of its powerful tail, its mouth already parting. No time to find her aim. Instead, she grabbed the shaft with both arms and like a baseball player going for the homerun, swung the handle with the severed arm right at it. There was resistance from the water but the streamlined shape of the spear gun made it more effective that trying to punch.
It was like hitting a sack of potatoes.
It must have been well over a hundred pounds. At least it felt like it. Her suspicions were only affirmed as she watched it retreat away from her, its thick body in full view. Its momentum had taken it into her swing as she hit it across the face, getting it by the nose and the severed arm extending her reach to its eye.
She was in the clear. Paddling, her flippers propelled her upwards. Tears pricked her eyes as she came across the remains of Luiz. The scene would haunt her for months. She moved on. The one thought on her mind pushing her forward. It was only stunned. And given how aggressive it had been, it would return. She had to get out of there.
The full moon was above her over the surface. The boat Damien was waiting for her in was a bit far off. It would be longer, but the diagonal was the best option to take. Hopefully, the shark would have lost interest in her. …Hopefully. The swing had made her short of breath and it was only now she realized that with every breath came an intake of water. She kept moving, her momentum only slightly hampered as she replaced the mouth piece. Nothing changed, her breaths still came with the water. She looked around at the tube connected to her gas tank and that’s when she noticed it. Bubbles were streaming out from a small tear on the tube. The shark must have got her while she had dived for the spear gun. The tank was useless now.
The light from the moon above her disappeared for a moment as she struggled to take off the tank. It was only when she had taken it off and let it drop to the bottom, did she notice them. The blood had drawn the rest of the school out and she was completely surrounded.
She was a sitting duck. One with a bull’s eye tailored perfectly for the predator bull sharks that depended heavily on scent. They were beginning to close in on her. Almost a dozen of them. She looked up and there were two hovering just above her. She gripped the spear gun in her hand more tightly than she had held on to anything in her life as the fingers on her right hand slipped to its trigger.
Normally, she would have shoved it away and fought against the knot on her throat that was the bile from her stomach at something that grotesque. But things weren’t normal. And her instincts weren’t too keen on giving her the leisure of reacting normally. She could fill the hand and fingers that were still closed in on the trigger and didn’t bother to pry them away. She kept her eyes on them. Surveying their underbelly whites and overall grey, trying to ignore their ragged teeth and their fact that their bite force could snap a turtle’s shell with ease. They must have been drawn to her by it. She hadn’t thought to pry the arm away and the blood had continued gushing out of it leaving a trail for them to follow. That and the fact that she had swum past him. Through the water that had still been heavy with his scent.
She raised the spear gun aiming wildly at the circling predators. One of them broke from the circle and she pulled the trigger, her index pushing the finger that was still holding it. The spear shot out scraping the side of the shark before disappearing into the darkness beyond. The shark retreated in agony breaking apart the circle of. 
They were momentarily destabilized but they found their form once more and begun closing in one her. She was at the end of the road and her body knew it. She would have hyperventilated but that would have meant taking deep breathes of air. That wasn’t an option. On the verge of passing out as she struggled to hold her breath, the sharks circled closer and closer. Not wanting to drown but beginning to wonder that it might have been as easier way to go.
I’m going to die.
If it was going to happen, she didn’t want to see it. She closed her eyes. Her heart beating out of her chest. When she was in the dark, she liked visualizing a place that helped calmed her down. This time however, nothing came to mind. It never did moments before you die. And it was only focused on one thing.
Please, I don’t want to die!!

CIIHIIAIIPIITIIEIIR  1
Remember Back When

If you think about it for a moment. How often have you been surprised by something the universe suddenly drops at your feet? It could be an unexpected job opportunity from a sudden connection, rekindling of an old flame after years have passed or something happening in your life at a moment that you least expected it to. Reality seems to bend at the whims of our thoughts and it may seem as though we have more of a direct connection with the universe than one might think. Though it becomes hard to see as it isn’t as apparent as it should be. This would soon be the case for Mr. and Mrs. Rabinovitch. 
Many successful people tend to attribute their upward progress in life to various things. Hard work is the main factor because the constant devotion to a task is not possible without one having the ambition to fulfill it. Second is providing a service or product that is capable of filling a gap or solving a problem that would in most cases be universal. When asked, the successful will be quick to point out that the reason many businesses or enterprises fail is because they never provide a service that solves an actual problem. Most are too hell bent in providing one that makes life easier. Third or first, depending on their religion, will be attributed to a deity they worshipped or a sheer element of good fortune in their lives. Though aside from the few that find their calling early in life, many of the successful would probably say something along the lines that ‘if you had told me that this was what I would be doing a few years ago, I could hardly believe you.’
Everyone wants to be successful. That being the case, it might seem like the universe may be playing some sort of sick game with our lives. Constantly dangling our hopes and dreams in front of us as we chase after them; much like tying a steak out of reach of an eager eyed, tongue lolling dog so it keeps moving forward. Blinded by the dangled prize that is completely in its focus, as it is consumed by the moment when it is finally able to sink its teeth into its fleshy exterior; letting the juices from the meat drip into its mouth and splattering onto its fur (those would be saved for later when it licks the sides of its mouth once the meal was finished). All the while, it pushes the sleigh behind it that carries its master’s load. 
A necessary illusion it gives itself much like people do because without it, then what would be the point. Few do realize this folly, the smoke behind the mirrors, and decide to take off the shackles that bind them and walk away from the bait and take another path. That may mean leaving what feels like a dead-end job that had started them on their way but it is only the fortunate few that are able to properly track down an injured deer, hunt it down for itself and be successful in their lives.
That was what it was like for Mr. Rabinovitch. He was a tall well-built man with dark hair, sky blue eyes and a strong jaw that was well hidden under his thick beard. He had been married for the past two years to his wife, Maleeka. She was thin, dark and wide eyed, which made her a delight to have in parties as people enjoyed the expressions she made whenever the latest bit of gossip was brought to light. Mr. Rabinovitch had been working in what felt like a dead-end job at an insurance company for the last several years. For as far back as he could remember, he had always wanted to be a… Strange, he had always known what he had wanted to be but now, he couldn’t put a finger on it even if he tried. 
Not ever since the strange car accident he had been involved in all those years back. Now there was nothing particularly strange about car accidents. They were hardly a phenomenon in this increasingly mobile world. However, it was one he had walked away from without the faintest memory of. Not the car he had been driving, where it had happened nor the time of day. He would have completely denied its existence if it had not been for the scars on parts of his body he could not explain and most importantly, the fact he had been informed that his dear cousin had perished in the gruesome accident. This perplexed him as he couldn’t remember ever meeting any of his cousins while he was younger. Not that he could trust his memory anymore but when he tried thinking back, he could see something that resembled a face. Though it was always out of focus, like staring at someone through a foggy bathroom window.
Despite being behind the wheel, his family never placed any blame on him. If anything, they were very understanding. More than that, a few weeks after the funeral had occurred (or so he had been told as he had been unable to attend it then) he could swear that the family were somewhat positively delighted… no, what was he thinking — delighted? It seemed very unlikely that anyone would react in such a way especially if it involved the death of a close family member. As the years passed by, he concluded that he must have imagined it. In the weeks after the accident however, he did feel their attitude towards him change ever so slightly. The entire scenario did have quite an effect on him and eventually, it took its toll. Against his parents’ wishes, he decided to move away from his homeland of Russia and settle in Kenya where he enrolled into a local university. His recollection of the events that had occurred at the time were limited at best and just as the accident, the memory of his dear friend faded with each passing day – no, not his friend, his cousin.  
It was a cold dull Wednesday when Mr. Rabinovitch’s life would change forever. Though, it did not seem it would be the case to him as he drove back home at the end of what had been a horrid day. The radio in his car was tuned into a local radio station that was currently broadcasting the news.
“We’re back from the short break and as promised, we have our special guest with us. A key member of parliament who we hope will shed more light into his plans as the new century draws close. But before that, let’s head over to Francis Ndegwa with the weather. Francis?”
“Well Mbotela,” said the weatherman, “residents of the Nairobi Metropolitan area and its surroundings should expect more of the same tomorrow. My apologies to the campers and ruined picnics that did not go to plan today. I know the hot sunny cloudless skies I had promised before did not come to fruition but the rain did disappear later in the morning…”
Mr. Rabinovitch would have taken to shouting at the radio on any a random day but at the time, his mind was occupied with events that had occurred earlier. For one, the day had got off to a poor start. Mr. Rabinovitch had no trouble waking up early in the morning as he was startled awake by a tree branch smacking his bedroom window loudly. His heart was laid at ease when he made out the distant creaking of trees in the wooded area that were near the flats he lived in. It was dark and raining buckets outside. He fumbled around the counter beside his bed for his alarm clock. He looked at it then groaned. It was a few minutes to four.
The branch to a nearby tree had been swayed by a strong gust of wind but that seemed to have been the worst of it. The sudden start he had woken up in had his heart racing and had made him fully awake. However, as he tried to go back to sleep, the wind blowing against the window, the rain dropping into the paddles it had formed on the ground below and the sounds of thunder rumbling overhead were relentless. But there was no negotiating with nature. Mr. Rabinovitch had no issue with waking up early. As long as it was five minutes after he was supposed to wake up to head to work. Working at the insurance company had not been a lifelong dream but there were bills to pay and food to put on the table and that made it all possible. It was not ideal but even if he wanted to do something else, what would he do?
Maleeka’s constant reminders no longer sounded like nagging to him anymore as she had told him severally to do something about the branches on the tree outside their bedroom. If he had, he would not have been abruptly woken up as he had been but instead, he stayed awake as the time ticked away cursing himself silently. He would have heartily taken her nagging now to the rumbling outside — his wife suddenly shifted beside him before rolling back to sleep — no, he was being foolish. He would have rather run out into the unforgiving cold street outside in his pajamas than seat through anything of the sort. 
He hoped that the sleep would soon return to him but it became more and more unlikely as the time wore on. Numerous thoughts filled his mind and he found himself thinking about many things. At one point his deceased cousin crossed his mind but the thought was short lived as he realized that today would be when they would be getting back the news. The rain pelted throughout the morning and as the short hand of the clock slowly edged to five, their room was lit up from time to time by headlights from the cars that drove past the nearby road as they headed to the city. All the while Maleeka slept on undisturbed. She had always been a deep sleeper. He envied that about her.
Once the clock struck five, he quietly got out of bed, took a shower, shaking away the grogginess that had finally made its untimely appearance before dressing up. He picked out a bland grey suit with a boring tie to match his mood and headed into the kitchen. He stopped at the corridor just outside their bedroom and peered into another room that was adjacent to it. There wasn’t much in here. Only a bright blue colored wall, a few toys littering the ground and right in the middle, a small wooden empty crib. Mr. Rabinovitch did not have much joy going to work at the insurance company every day. However, walking past this room gave him the dose of enthusiasm and motivation he needed. He continued into the kitchen and put the kettle on for the coffee. It was just about to come to boil when a groggy Maleeka walked into the kitchen still dressed in her pajamas.
“Morning dear,” she said sleepily. “You’re up earlier than usual.”
“Morning. Yeah, I— had trouble sleeping,” he finished after a short pause deciding not to let on as to what had woken him up in the first place. Another bout of nagging was not what he had planned for. Especially not before he had his morning coffee. “I hope I didn’t wake you.”
“No, not at all. I had a little trouble sleeping as well.”
“Yeah right,” he snorted under his breath remembering the puddle of drool she had left on her pillow. Fortunately for him, the coffee had just come to boil and she was unable to hear him over the steam that shot out of the kettle. 
She made him some toast and it was at hour after he had got out of bed that he was grabbing his coat to head out of the door. She walked him out and they exchanged pleasantries with the other residents that were slowly filling out from their own apartments. They stopped to respond before turning back to lock their doors. Together descended the stairs, turning left as it spiraled to the bottom floor. The sound of a revving engine from the parking lot outside could be hard growing louder as they descended.
“Terrible weather,” she said finally after they had walked in silence for a short while. They had reached the entrance and Maleeka was reluctant to head outside where it was still raining heavily.
“Yeah, it must have been raining all night through to the morning,” said Mr. Rabinovitch as he stared at the overflowing gutters. “Damn weatherman.”
Paddles of water had formed all over the dirt parking lot filled by the rain and overflowing gutters. That, along with the poorly maintained grass that the caretaker had allowed to grow in patches and the few trees in the compound made the area outside the flats quite murky. Add some frogs and a few alligators and they would have been walking into a small swamp. One of the residents was having a lick of trouble making his way to the gate. He revved the engine of his car that remained motionless as the back wheel of his white sedan rotated only to continue digging a trench into the mud. The only progress being made was that the white sedan was slowly taking on a brown hue as the mud splattered across its surface. Mr. Rabinovitch could see the trench was slowly getting larger and that it would soon form a channel to a paddle of water that was near it. He had no trouble speculating what would happen next when the water met the spinning wheel.  
“Today is when we can expect to hear back from the agency then,” said Maleeka drawing away his attention as she brushed some lint from his shoulder. 
“Yes, dear. They’ll be calling the office during the day. Don’t worry,” he added as he saw her worried expression, “I think we did very well with the inspection. The house was spectacular and the food you made was delicious as always.”
“Oh, I hardly think so,” she said as her face lightened. “Your jokes made the conversation with the agent very lively plus your job makes us suitable candidates.”
“We’ll be just fine. Anyway,” he said as he checked his watch, “I better get going. The traffic into town will be terrible. Good day.”
“Good day,” she said to him as he rushed out to the parking lot his coat over his head. 
“And don’t forget to trim the branches of the tree next to the window when you get back like I told you,” she shouted over the rain.
He pretended not to hear her but he was not going to make the same mistake lest he was made to lose sleep once more. He had managed to make it to his car without getting drenched but as he fumbled with his keys to the car door, his earlier deductions unfolded. The white sedan finally dug deep enough that the water from the nearby paddle streamed in and it was sent scattering as it continued to spin its wheel. Some drops splattered on his coat and white shirt but they were hardly noticeable. At least not enough for him run back up to the house to change and risk being late. Not that he had to. He could see a second briefcase in the back seat for emergencies such as those.
He got into the car and had a better go at getting to the gate than his neighbor and soon enough, he was on the road. Large drops continued pounding the roof of his car. Though it was only when he was midway about to head into town that he realized that the uncomfortable ride he had had since he had left the parking lot had nothing to do with the poor roads. He had a flat tyre. He stopped to change it and by the time he had returned to the road, he was drenched wet and had already lost half an hour.
He hurried to town hellbent on not being late so it did not help his mood when he eventually found himself stuck between two buses in the morning traffic jam. Cars were jam packed on both lanes as the weather slowed down their progress. His fingers drummed impatiently on his steering wheel as the procession slowly edged towards the city. The large bus in front of him was full to the brim with passengers as he could see some dark silhouettes through the misty rear window standing on the path in between the seats. This always infuriated him every time he saw them: why did they have to keep picking passengers even when they’re already over capacity!  But he knew that the main reason was because the city was unable to assign more buses to the route. 
However, his rush to get to work made his temper less prone to understanding and he couldn’t help but shout out of his window as the bus kept coming to a stop even when the traffic had begun to move. The sides of the road were muddy and full of running water. This made the bus driver reluctant to leave the tarmac and let the passengers alight lest the bus was to get stuck. It was all well and good but the over packed state of the buses made it a long wait for the traffic behind them as passengers had to squeeze past each other to alight. 
“Oh! Not again,” roared Mr. Rabinovitch when for almost the umpteenth time, the bus stopped. His heart sunk as this time he saw a dark silhouette get up from the back seat and start their long procession to the exit. 
Knowing it would be another five minutes before the bus would continue moving, he edged closer before quickly driving past it once the opposite lane had finally cleared. He drove off hastily along the open road the bus had left ahead of it and as the anxiety creeped back in as he stared at his watch once more, the frustration that it had caused him was driven out of his mind; disappearing just as its large frame did behind him till soon enough it was but small speck in his rear-view mirror. He was glad to be no longer bothered by its constant stops and hardly had a moment to spare a thought for the disembarking soul forced to squeeze past the other standing passengers with difficulty like trying to get the last bit of toothpaste from the tube. A few minutes later, he had arrived in the Afrinsures parking lot.
He was twenty minutes late for his first meeting of the day and walked in, two briefcases in hand, to find his manager in the middle of a presentation. He was a short but beefy man who, just as the blubs of fat that were his chest and chin were split by his hardly visible neck between them, did not like being interrupted. Mr. Rabinovitch’s greetings and apologies fell on deaf ears as he hurried to take a seat at the far end of the room where he could remain out of sight.
The meeting ended an hour later but he was stopped by the manager as they filed out of the boardroom. He was the pursiest Mr. Rabinovitch had seen him as he shouted at him for his tardiness before he had the chance to finally get to his cubicle. He made a few phone calls answering some of the outstanding messages he had received before grabbing one of his suitcases and dashing to the lavatory where he was finally able to change into a fresh suit. Putting away the damp socks and clothes into the briefcase, he headed back to his cubicle where in the time he had gone, the paperwork on his desk seemed to have tripled. He looked around and saw the manager sneering at him from across the room; a sinister smile etched across his face. Mr. Rabinovitch let out a deep sigh before pulling his chair and getting to work.
He disappeared behind the paperwork not even noticing when the cubicles next to his were occupied and left as the hours passed by. It was only once he had lost count of the documents he had filled as he decreased the pile in front of him did the clock at the top of the wall in front of him finally appear and he realized how much time he had lost track of. It was well past lunchtime when he stood up and decided to take a break. He knew that the food in the cafeteria would have all been devoured by now but he didn’t mind. He could get his meal at a café across the road and he was eager to leave the building and take up the opportunity to stretch his legs. He left the building before walking across the road to buy a pastry.
He knew that his pile of work still awaited him in his office and decided not to stay and eat. He picked his order, his back to the black and white television set on the wall before walking out. He was only able to catch a few words from the news report that was coming in.
“… officers are perplexed and yet to identify the cause behind the explosion that was reported in…”
Had he heard the rest of the report, he would have rushed back into the café to watch the entire briefing. But he had been away from his desk long enough and did not want to stay any longer lest he missed the call from the agency. He left a small crowd gathering in the café and rushed back to his cubicle where he went about his work once more. It was at half past three that the call he had been anticipating arrived.
“Hello, this is Mr. Rabinovitch?” he said as he picked the call responding as he normally did whenever a client called.
“Hello Mr. Rabinovitch. My name is Gloria. I’m calling from the adoption agency,” the voice on the other end of the line said. 
He froze. The phone was clutched to the side of his face but still, he remained silent. The words he had been reading on the papers he poured over vanished from his mind and along with it the ability to be coherent. 
“Hello,” the voice asked once more after a few seconds of silence.
The words had failed him and he was only brought out of his trance by the voice from the other end of the line.
“Uh—wamble hashwoddle …” His reply was a bit of a jumble as he slowly regained his composure. 
“Pardon,” said Gloria.
“Uhm sorry, I—We’ve been expecting your call.”
“Yes… I’m calling as it regards your application.” 
There was a slight change in her tone.
“Well I’ve had quite a long day and could do with a bit of good news to be honest,” replied Mr. Rabinovitch excitedly.
“Right. Well the birth happened today in the early hours of the morning and was a complete success,” came the reply from the ear piece.
“That’s wonderful to hear. I hope both the mother and child are healthy then.”
“Yes, they both are. The mother is currently recovering and the child is resting in the labor room but,” this time Mr. Rabinovitch noticed her change in tone and had a sinking feeling in his chest, “I’m sorry to be the bearer of bad news but there was a change of heart with the birth mother and she has decided to keep the child. I am very…”
Mr. Rabinovitch slumped back on his seat. Whatever had been in his chest was falling, falling through him shattering the hopes he had held in expectation as easily as a boulder through glass. He did not even recall thanking the agent and ending the phone call but found himself still seated behind his desk an hour later staring at the same paper that had been in his hand when he received the call. Time seemed to drift from then onwards and he was only brought back to reality by a bit of news that caught his attention.
“… should be wet a bit later in the night and that could go on to the early hours of the morning. But from then onwards, it should be sunny skies.”
“Not so sure our listeners might be completely convinced after today’s debacle?”
“I’m not too worried about it Mbotela. But to keep the listeners at ease, I would be willing to stake my job on it. That’s a guarantee.”
“Thanks for the report Francis,” said Mbotela. “Well, you heard it here first people. High stakes for this one. For the campers and picnics being planned, feel free to pitch your tents and lay down your mats because, according to the weatherman, it could be a hot one tomorrow. Hopefully we won’t have callers on the line peeved by the promises as we did today, will we Francis?” (A nervous laugh could be heard in the background). “But before we head over to our special guest, for those listeners just tuning in this is just a recap of the news that has been breaking throughout the day. Late last night. just outside Saint Petersburg in Russia, a large explosion was reported. There were a few casualties that were not fatal but the authorities have reported that the body of Aiden Magere was discovered at the source. He and his wife, Elena, have been wanted fugitives and were believed to have sought refuge in Russia. The whereabouts of his wife are still unknown but she is believed to be highly dangerous and the authorities should be immediately contacted if spotted. The cause of the explosion is yet to be identified but the blast that destroyed an entire house in a suburban area in …”
Mr. Rabinovitch recognized the place the broadcaster reported. It was a suburb near where he had grown up as a child. At least that much he remembered from his past.  He would give his folks a ring and check up on them. The time difference was the same give or take a few minutes, wasn’t it? Yes, perhaps later in the night once I’ve got home. Home, he thought and he was instantly reminded of the daunting prospect of having to break the news he had received during the day to Maleeka. He imagined the expression on her face and the sinking feeling he had returned to him. It felt as though it had been falling throughout and it had already reached the core of the earth leaving behind the empty shell that was himself as he drove back home almost unconsciously. He didn’t even pay any attention to the radio as they had finally started interviewing the member of parliament who promised to increase the buses heading to the city. 
It was then that he found himself driving through Mageuko drive. It was a bit far off from the path he would normally use on his way to work but he did not mind the drive. This was a detour he took from time to time especially when he needed some time to think and he was in no hurry to rush back home given the circumstances. 
He drove past the large iron gates that shimmered in the dark from the light from his headlights before they melded back into the darkness almost out of existence as he drove past. They lined both sides of the road and behind them were large mansions. The tops of the houses were visible over the high hedge fences that surrounded the compounds and he could clearly see the windows illuminated by the light streaming through them. He glanced at each gate as he passed looking for something as he always did whenever he drove through here. However, halfway through the driveway, a sense of dread filled him as the blank iron gates stared back at him. He was sure he had seen it the last time he had driven through the neighborhood… and that was just last week! Perhaps this would be the culmination of his horrid day. With the luck he had been having, he would reach the end of the driveway without once spotting it.
This seemed to be the case as he approached the last huddle of mansions at the end of the street when finally, he spotted it. The reflective sign shimmered under the glow of his car’s headlights and a sense of relief flooded through him. He stopped near the gate. Since he had discovered this neighborhood years ago, Mr. Rabinovitch had dreamed of owning one of these houses. He had not always been a materialistic man but ever since he had moved here from Russia and started his life, he envisioned this as being the epitome of his success. A large house for him and his family to live in.
As is always the case with reality, things had not gone to plan. He was still far off from affording the house and was worried he might soon be getting fired given the amount of work he had left unfinished at the office. As for the family, well it felt like he was back at square one and unsure of what to do next. He stared at the ‘For Sale’ sign on the gate for a few moments and imagined the life that would have been. It was a few minutes later that he ignited the engine once more. He looked back at the house and let out a deep sigh before driving off. That would be the last time he would be driving through that neighborhood, he decided. He couldn’t keep fooling himself with his imagination and dreams of splendor. He had to accept his reality as it was. 
He joined the main road at the end of the street and half an hour later he had arrived at the street leading to the apartments where he knew his wife was waiting expectantly and worried sick given how long he had taken to arrive. He stopped just outside the gate as he tried to piece together the words he would relay to her. Times like this, he would have given a leg for a shot of something strong to give him the courage. However, he knew that Maleeka was strongly against alcohol given the bad experiences she had gone through as a child and he had long ago promised that he would never take a sip of any brew. He realized that no amount of preparation would be enough to be able to relay the news any better. He then drove closer and honked the horn once so the doorman could open the gate.
The street was dark and mostly empty. At the far end of the road, he heard then saw another car approaching as it turned a corner and he saw its headlights peering through the darkness. Loud music was blaring from it and as it approached, he had to shield his eyes from the glare but he was not surprised to see a group of young adults jam packed into the Peugeot much like the bus he had been stuck behind earlier in the day. He didn’t have to guess for too long to know where they were heading as the city lights shone bright in the direction they drove to.
The gate was opened and Mr. Rabinovitch drove through. He waved at the guard who, wrapped in his Maasai blanket, was red eyed and from his expression as he stared back at him seemed to be disgruntled. Mr. Rabinovitch deduced he must not have been too happy to be woken from his slumber as he watched him close the gate quickly and rush back to the small guard post that had been erected near the gate. The white sedan he had left stuck on his way to work was no longer there. It was now left stationary near the gate and he guessed it was parked there so the owner wouldn’t have to go through the hell he had in the morning again. He parked his car then stepped out and headed towards the building dreading every step he took. The clouds parted and the moonlight shone through illuminating the area around the apartments but he paid no attention to it as he walked into the building and headed to his apartment his mind still racing. 
The music blaring from the Peugeot that had driven past Mr. Rabinovitch was now slowly fading away into the cold night air, doppler in full effect, as the car drove closer to the city and further away from their neighborhood. It was dead silent outside the apartments when two hooded figures suddenly appeared in the middle of the night. One second there was a patch of grass, the other they stood on top of it looking as much in place as the tree they stood next to; as though they had been there the whole time. The tree towered over them and to their left was the building where Mr. Rabinovitch and his wife stayed. The branch that had smacked onto Mr. Rabinovitch’s window earlier in the day hovered above them but they were not to know that. More importantly they had other things in their mind.
“Thank heavenz tree is never cut down,” said one of the voices. 
She was the taller of the two and her voice was high pitched almost always sounding as a shrill which gave people the impression that she was shouting at them whenever she spoke. She had brilliant sky-blue eyes and her long slick dark hair was tied into a tight bun leaving the very strong jaw bones that protruded from the side of her face very visible. Her skinny frame and long neck did not do much to draw away attention from her jaw but she was still a very good looking woman.
“Will you please keep your voice down. We can’t risk getting spotted otherwise being here would be pointless,” said the other in a much more soothing voice as she gazed over at the guard post where the guard had disappeared into moments before. There was no movement coming from it and when they remained still for a few moments, they could make out the sound of light snoring carrying over to them.
Feeling a bit calm, the second voice then continued.
“What would have happened if the tree was cut down?” she asked. 
“Trust me Elena, you vould not vant to know. I am almost buried alive because of it. But never mind that, I am thinking zis plan of yours vill not vork. Is bad idea.”
“It will, I know it will… It just has to,” said Elena, her voice trembling as she broke into a quiet sob. Though shorter, she had a set of very brilliant light brown eyes that almost looked green under a light due to how wide they were just above her high cheek bones. Between them extended a short sharp pointed nose. She was the prettier of the two but it would have been hard to tell at the moment as her rugged brown silky hair flowed down from her scalp covering most of her face. Her eyes were red and puffy behind it and the tip of her nose had a slight red hue. She was staring at the blanket in her arms that had been wrapped into a bundle. 
“There, there,” said the first voice comfortingly as she patted her on the back. “I know is hard. But you vere right, like you said, it best ve are not discovered. Vould not vant whole thing vith baby again.” 
“He was just missing his father,” said Elena softly.
Standing together huddled next to each other under their cloaks, they almost looked like witches but that was far from it. At least in the concept that humanity viewed witches. She pulled out a handkerchief from under her cloak and dabbed away the tears that streamed down her face. However, the tears stopped and a smile streaked across her face as a small black arm protruded from the bundle and tried to grab at the sharp pointed noise above it.
“Right,” she said regaining her composure and staring up at the building next to her. “Are you sure he still lives here?”
“Yes, I’m sure,” she replied. “I try to keep tabs on him since leaving school but still haven’t had heart to approach. Elena, I still thinking zis is just not possible.”
“Oh, will you stop being such a wet blanket. You sound worse than Madam Humphrey,” said Elena.
The other woman gasped. 
“Suka! Take that back. I am nothing like sour old goat and resent ze comparison,” she hissed as she started walking away from the tree following behind Elena. They turned left and headed towards the entrance that Mr. Rabinovitch had only moments before disappeared through. 
“What floor does he stay in?” asked Elena. 
She remained silent for a brief moment still peeved by her earlier remark but eventually replied.
“Second floor. House at furthest end. Be careful,” she added as she watched Elena hurry through the entrance and head to the staircase without looking back. It was shrouded in darkness as there were no light bulbs and the light from the moon could only get so far.
“Elena, Elena… slow down will you” said the other woman as she hurried to keep up. “I really think you should reconsider. Look,” she continued as she watched her head up up the stairs without stopping, “I’ve read what happens to others. Abstracted they are called.”
“I’m well aware,” said Elena without looking back.
“Then you know what will happen if we show up all of a sudden. The way it works, they make the memory fade and once enough time has passed, they remember nothing at all. If we just showed up suddenly, it could affect him deeply, change him forever. Is why I have been reluctant to approach because I am not sure how he will react.”
Elena arrived at an open space once she had climbed up the first bit of stairs. There was a platform that led to a corridor that was shrouded in semi darkness. She ignored it with not so much of a glance and instead took a right following the staircase as it continued winding upwards. 
“It will be different this time,” said Elena.
“That’s what I don’t understand. What makes you so sure?”
“Just trust me. I know it will work and he would be much safer here than with me.”
She was rushing up the stairs but did so carefully making sure that the bundle was secure and the baby who had returned to sleep, remained so in her arms. This time, she walked out onto the corridor that emerged. The hallway it led to stretched out to opposite sides shrouded in semi darkness and it was only illuminated by the light streaming from the windows near the numbered doors. The hallway that led to her left was longer and she took it, walking past the windows to the other adjacent apartments where the drawn curtains hid her from view. After a few short strides, she stood in front of apartment at the furthest end and without a moment’s hesitation, she repositioned the bundle to one arm so she could free her right hand that she raised to the door.
“Vait!” shrieked the other woman as she grabbed a hold of Elena’s arm.
“Is this not the right place?” asked Elena.
“It is,” she said hunched over panting as she looked at the door, “Let me catch breath first.” 
“Aleandra, we can’t keep putting this off,” whispered Elena. “Who knows how long we have before they track us down.”
“I know, I know, just wait one moment… please,” she said. She stood upright, her face illuminated by the light coming from the window to the nearby apartment and for the first time since they had arrived, Elena noticed the expression on her face had changed. It was no longer the serious glum expression she always had. It had softened and for the first time since they had met she looked vulnerable, almost like a child. Her voice trembled as she went on.
“I lied okay. I’ve seen him once since we were separated. I had to, I had to see what had become of him but when we met… he had no idea who I was. He didn’t recognize me and I’m his twin sister! And even if he did now, he still thinks I died in that car crush they made him believe.”
Elena withdrew her hand from the door and instead reached out and patted her on the shoulder. 
“I’m sorry Aleandra. I’ve been so short sighted. I’ve been in such a rush to get my son to safety that I ignored what meeting him would mean to you. Please, forgive me.”
“No, no,” faltered Aleandra. “You should not be apologizing… you’ve been through enough to worry about me. And you’re right, the child comes first. I just needed a few moments to…”
“I understand. Take as long as you need. Though —well you know—not too long,” said Elena.
“Okay,” she said. They waited in silence for a few moments. Elena cradled the child in her arms. He was still asleep hardly making any noise.
“Alright,” said Aleandra finally. “Let me.” 
She walked towards the door and Elena stepped out of the way standing just out of sight. She took a deep breath as she raised her hand and rapped the door with the knuckle of her middle finger. It was a short while before they finally heard footsteps approaching from the other side and quite suddenly, the door was swung wide open bathing them and the hallway behind them in bright light. 
“Yes dear, I’ll tell them to come by later,” he said looking over his shoulder. “I’m very sorry, my wife and I —" 
He froze as he met the piercing blue eyes that stared back at him.
“Has been long time, Aleksandra,” said Aleandra.
“I-I,” he stuttered as though he was staring at a ghost. Yet it wasn’t a ghost, if anything it felt like a mirror. “I’m sorry ha-have I seen you somewhere before?” asked Mr. Rabinovitch.
“Is me. Sister from Russia.”
“No, yo— you must be mistaken,” he said as he shook his head. “I-I don’t have a sister. Now if you would please excuse me, I have some delicate news to give my wife and we will require some privacy. Sorry I cannot be of much help.”
He made to close the door but Aleandra stuck a foot out to stop him.
“You must be remembering at least something. Just give me one moment.”
“I’m sorry,” he said as he tried to push her leg out of the way, “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“You must…,” she continued exasperatedly as she fought back. “Surely you do… I know your memory has not always been well. Not ever since they tell you about car crash but —”
Suddenly, the commotion stopped as he stopped trying to force the door closed. 
“How do you about the accident?” he asked.
“I—”
“Were you close to the deceased as well?” he interrupted her before she could speak. “I’m very sorry, I must have met you before. He was a very close friend to me as well.”
“Do you remember him well?” she asked.
“Yes, well… no, not completely. His face comes and goes sometimes but as you said earlier, I’ve had trouble remembering things ever since it happened. I’m sorry for trying to chase you away. I didn’t know you knew about him.”
“No, no… is no trouble. There is something you should know. I have to tell truth now,” she sighed deeply. “You should know the whole thing was lie. Accident never happened.”
The color drained from Mr. Rabinovitch’s face but it slowly returned and she could see his cheeks take on a bright red hue as his eyebrow creased in anger. She would have been a bit intimidated had she not be taken back by the sight. Aleandra had always been told her face contorted in the same way whenever she got upset. It was like staring right at a mirror. 
“What are you talking about, of course it did. How can you say it never happened,” said Mr. Rabinovitch infuriated.
“But do you remember anything at all from accident? Like car or when it happened”
“No, but—”
“Yet no file report by police, no wreckage and haven’t you had trouble remembering since? How can you be so sure?”
“What? No — I…” he hesitated and for the first time, he was starting to sound unsure. “But that is normal for someone who’s been in accident. For God’s sake my cousin died!” he roared
“I thought is close friend that died?” replied Aleandra calmly.
Mr. Rabinovitch looked horror struck as though he had just been slapped in the face. His mouth remained ajar as he struggled to respond. He closed and opened it several times but no words came out as he was struggled with all that he was being told. 
“What is going on here?” said a voice from inside the house. “Dear, I thought you said you were going to get rid of them. Who is it that’s at the—”
Maleeka appeared beside Mr. Rabinovitch but she stopped short once she saw Aleandra standing at the doorway. She stared at her, then her husband and back at her again. Her jaw dropped slowly with each glance.
“Aleksandra, who is this?” she said finally. Mr. Rabinovitch found his voice at long last and responded
“No one dear, they were just leaving,” he said to her. “I’m sorry, you must go now,” he said as he turned to face them and slowly begun closing the door.
“But—”
“WAIT!” shouted Aleandra cutting off Maleeka who was taken by surprise that she jumped back almost falling onto the coffee table that was behind her. Aleandra had once more placed her foot on the door to prevent him from closing it.
“You must remember,” she said desperately her voice trembling as tears welled in her eyes. “Is me your little sister. Please… Zanna!”
Suddenly, there was no more pushing. Mr. Rabinovitch let go of the door and staggered back a few steps as it swung wide open smacking the wall. The expression on his face was aghast and with his hand on his chest, he looked as though he had just been shot.
“That name,” he whispered.
“You remember— is nickname we had for each other. You were Zanna and I… I was Leah.”
“Bu— but I, I have… ," he said   
He stopped short and his eyes glazed over as though they were made of glass. 
“ALEKSANDRA!”
“ZANNA!”
Both Maleeka and Aleandra shouted in unison. Mr. Rabinovitch had fallen to his knees with his hands clutching at his hair as though a piercing migraine had just shot through his head. He started breathing heavily and they could see his eyes bulging as though they were about to pop out of their sockets. 
Elena had walked in view onto the doorway but no one seemed to have noticed because just as abruptly, he had started banging his head furiously on the coffee table. He did it harder every time he withdrew his head. Maleeka tried but she wasn’t strong enough. Aleandra jumped in to help just as he had withdrawn his head once more and was about to plunge back.  She was just in time to stop him but the side of his face had a red hue as blood was streaking out from a cut on his forehead.
“What’s the matter with him?” shrieked Maleeka.
“He must have been triggered,” muttered Aleandra to herself. “Elena! I need you!” she shouted but she didn’t have to. She was already standing behind her looking just as terrified as she was. 
“Who are you?” asked Maleeka as she stared flabbergasted at Elena. However, she didn’t wait to hear a reply as her husband suddenly starting moaning and muttering to shouting, “No, no, no, I don’t, I never had… car crash, car crash,”
“Someone,” shouted Maleeka, “Please help him.”
Elena crouched next to her still holding the bundle securely in her arms but this recent bit of shouting seemed to have finally woken the baby. His cries now overshadowed Mr. Rabinovitch’s senseless rants but then something truly remarkable happened.
Mr. Rabinovitch seemed to quiet down in the wake of the cries from the baby that echoed throughout the room. They were able to draw him out of his trance and as he looked into his eyes, something came over him. He calmed down. Stopping his struggles against Aleandra and his wife who had been trying to hold him down. He was entranced. And as he kept staring at his beautiful face, a sense of calm seemed to wash over him. 
His eyes that had been glazed, cleared and they were once more the remarkable blue they had always been. He stared around the room as though surprised to have found himself in it and when he met the almost identical eyes staring back at him, he engulfed Aleandra in a tight hug as his eyes welled up with tears. 
“It can’t be, Leah,” he said as he withdrew from the hug and held her at arm’s length before wrapping his hands around her once more. “It really is you, all this time I thought you had— you were…” he broke into a sob before he could finish, his chest heaving as he did. The baby was quieting once more and his eyes were now closed.
“So, you remember —everything,” she said happily as she wrapped her hands around him as well.
“Of course, I do. How could I forget my dear sister,” he said as he sobbed into her cloak.
“You say that now but only before you was missing broom to chase me out,” she said sternly. Though she could not hide the smile that streaked her face.
“I’m very sorry about that,” he said as he chuckled softly and withdrew once more from the embrace. “My memory had been failing me. But now that I look at you, I can’t believe I did not snap out of it at once. How long has it been?”
“Too long. I’ve missed you brother. Let me take a look at that,” she said as she withdrew her handkerchief and tried to dab away at the cut over his ear.
“It’s just a small cut, you don’t have to worry yourself about it.”
“You haven’t changed one bit. Still the same brother who acted tough even when he got injured.”
“And you’re still the same sister who kept giving me those same injuries and now here you are. Years later and you’ve already given me a new one,” he said chortling as he dabbed slightly at the cut.
For the first time since they arrived, Aleandra laughed heartily with her brother and Elena, who had never seen her behave in such a manner, was star struck as she watched. The baby was already fast asleep in her arms.
“Can someone please tell me what is going on?” asked Maleeka who had been rendered speechless for the past few minutes.
“Right, darling. My apologies. This is Aleandra. My twin sister,” he said casually.
“Nice to meet you,” said Aleandra as she grabbed her hand and shook it. This did nothing to wipe away the bamboozled expression on her face. If anything, she had no trouble believing they were related. There was definitely no doubt as she stared at the jaw bones on the sides of their faces. However, given the events that had transpired in the last few minutes and the emotional roller coaster she was still dangling onto, the conversation had taken a certain normality that was as hard to swallow as a bitter pill. She was about to make her feeling known as erratic as they would be but she was interrupted by Elena who took the opportunity to clear her throat and alert them of her presence in the room.
“Ooh right!” said Aleandra startled as she got up quickly. “Elena, I’m so sorry I almost forgot.”
“Where are my manners,” roared Mr. Rabinovitch as he got up as well. “You and your guest must be tired. You are both very welcome. Or should I say the three of you,” he whispered as he turned his attention to the small bundle of joy still in Elena’s arms; a warm smile peering through his beard.
“Thank you so much for your hospitality Zanna but I’m afraid we will have to postpone. Ve cannot stay. And I know that this is unorthodox given the time we have been apart but I have a huge favor to ask of you.”
“That is a shame you cannot stay,” he said the smile disappeared from his face. “But of course, Leah. Anything for my little sister.”
“This is Elena. You might not know her but she is family and —”
“I need your help,” interrupted Elena. “My life is in danger,” she said as she glanced back at the dark corridor behind the door. “and we can’t stay here for much longer without endangering you as well.”
“Say no more,” said Mr. Rabinovitch. “I am used to being in tight spots. If someone wants to hurt the people I care about, they will have to go through me. Please, feel free to stay for as —”
“No, I can’t,” blurted Elena. “I’ve already put you in enough danger as it is by bringing Aleandra here with what had happened with your memories.”
“Danger? No, if anything you have saved me. You have brought my sister back into my life and given me something that I had lost a long time ago. I am in your debt forever and you should feel free to stay as long as you want.”  
“No Zanna,” said Aleandra shaking her head slowly. “We cannot ask this of you, is too much. But there is one thing you can do for us that is just as important.”
“What? Anything Leah, I would be happy to.”
Aleandra looked at her brother then turned and looked back at Elena before nodding to her.
“My son,” said Elena as she walked up to him. Her voice trembled as she spoke, “I need you to take him. He cannot stay with me as I will be on the run, it would be no life for him. Please, I know this is a lot to ask but —”
“Yes,” hiccupped Maleeka from behind Mr. Rabinovitch. 
She had been silent throughout as she followed the exchange between them. Her eyes had welled with tears that were now streaming down her face as she stared at them. Mr. Rabinovitch was speechless as well but his eyes had a glint of happiness that Elena recognized despite not seeing it too many times.
“Zanna,” said Aleandra as she took one of his hands. “Are you sure? Is a lot to ask of you. I would not want to intrude more than I already have.”
“Life has not been too great since last we saw each other Leah,” he said as he placed his other hand on top of hers. “Maleeka and I have had trouble conceiving since we got married and just today, we… we failed in adopting a child. So, if you are really are willing,” he paused as he looked up at Elena, “we would be more than happy to take care of your child.”
Elena staired at the pair of them completely lost for words. She had come here without expectations and in a hopeless situation yet she had been able to get more than she had bargained for. She had to be strong given the road that she would still have to tread from then on but she was unable to keep the emotions at bay for too long. She had found a safe haven that her child could call home and this might be the last time she would ever set eyes on him.
She placed her hand to her forehead and caressed her eyebrows with her thumb and index finger to try and compose herself but it was not enough to hold back the dam that finally broke and along with it, she broke into a sob. Aleandra walked over to her and patted her gingerly on the back.
“I-I-I know, I know,” sobbed Elena as she took the handkerchief that Aleandra had offered her earlier. “It’s just I c-c-can’t believe it’s really happening. I know he’ll be safe — small part of hoped that I —”
“I know Elena. I’ll miss him too.”
Elena nodded and walked towards Maleeka who stood next to Mr. Rabinovitch. She bent over and looked into the bundle that rose and fell ever so slightly. His face was visible under his black ragged hair within the brown blankets. She gave him a soggy kiss on his forehead before placing him into the accepting hands of Maleeka. 
“Goodbye my son,” she said softly. She was reluctant to let go but eventually did and stepped away.
“We’ll take good care of him,” said Maleeka in an assuring tone and she nodded at her. “What is his name?”
“Michael,” she said softly. “It was given to him by his father.”
“Michael,” repeated Maleeka as she stared at the bundle as she smiled. 
“I think it’s best we be on our way,” said Aleandra. Elena blew her nose in reply before walking to the door and to the corridor outside.
Aleandra walked to the door but stopped and turned so she could look at her brother once more.
“It’s shame we have to leave like this. There’s so much I would like to know of what became of you since we saw each other last. Perhaps another time, if we are lucky. Goodbye Zanna.”
“Who is this Zanna?” asked Mr. Rabinovitch with a puzzled look in his face.
Aleandra looked at him stunned as her mouth fell wide open in shock.
“Kidding… I am kidding sister. All this time and you still don’t know how to take joke?”
Her nostrils flared and she closed her mouth.  
“But in all seriousness,” he continued as quickly as he saw her jaw bones became even more pronounced as she clenched her teeth. “Stay safe.” 
He walked over and gave her a final hug. She responded and walked out after saying her final goodbyes to them both where Elena stood waiting. They walked to the staircase before disappearing into the darkness. They heard no engine roar to life in the silent dark outside nor the guard open a gate to let them out. For all intense and purposes, they might have just disappeared into the night. The only trace left of their existence was the bundle of joy they had left them with.
It was later around midnight, when Mr. Rabinovitch finally convinced Maleeka to head back to the bedroom to sleep as they had stayed beside the crib watching him sleep throughout. Mr. Rabinovitch walk up early in the next morning and had to rush into the adjacent bedroom to make sure that all that had transpired had not been a strange dream. His heart was laid at ease as he came across Michael still asleep in the crib at the center of the room.
He walked back outside quietly so as not to wake him before heading to the bathroom to take a shower. He stood, looking himself at the mirror afterwards as he looked at the scars that were on certain parts of his body. He had lived for so long not knowing where they had come from but now he remembered every single one of them and how they had occurred. His sister had a lot to do with them when they had been growing up. His memories still came back slowly as time passed. However, aside from most of his childhood, there was one essential memory that had returned to him. He had retrieved something important. He now remembered what it was he had always wanted to do.
He put on his best suit and one of his favorite ties. It was a celebration as this would be his final day at his dead-end job. He was going to quit his job and start a new business. One that he had been passionate about for most of his life. What had seemed to be one of the worst days of his life turned out to be one that he would never forget. Despite losing the chance to raise a child, he had been blessed with the chance to raise another one and he had been reconnected with someone he had lost before. Not even the rain outside could dampen his moods. 
It is funny what the universe can drop at your feet on any given day.


 
CIIHIIAIIPIITIIEIIR  2
A Date is Set

“Come on, let’s go camping. It will be fun.”
More than sixteen years had passed since Mr. Rabinovitch had been reunited with his sister and accepted the request, she had put forth to him. A lot had changed in the years that passed. Nairobi was now one of the fastest growing cities in the land. The roads in and out of it were paved and better maintained and the muddy sidewalks beside them were now becoming a thing of the past. There were more than enough buses shepherding people in and out of the city that gave Mr. Rabinovitch very little to complain about. Some habits still do die hard and from time to time it would not be difficult to find the occasionally overcrowded buses still making unnecessary stops in the middle of the road. Though Mr. Rabinovitch rarely had anything to complain about these days, not since he had quite his job all those years ago. His wife, Maleeka helped him manage his business and had started one of her own as well. Michael was no longer the small huddle that could easily be wrapped around a sheet of blankets and carried in one arm. He was now a fully-grown and his eighteenth birthday was but a few months away. As for his birth mother, she had not been seen or heard from ever since that fateful night. A lot had changed since then…
It was late March at the University near the city center of Nairobi, Kenya where our story continues. 
The warm sun was glowing all over and some birds flew by which were always a sight to see; unless they were the large hovering Marabou storks that shamelessly splattered their refuse all over the mostly clean city center. The university had the same profile that most others around the world do. There was a hustle and bustle as students flocked to and from their scheduled courses, while some hibernated within their rest rooms dreading the early classes and constantly scrolling through their contact list looking for someone in particular.
The general profile the latter were in search for normally matched the A-student of their class that had a regular attendance. They did this so they could call in favors and have them sign their names on the attendance sheets provided for classes they were too bothered to attend in the first place. Either that or otherwises risk missing their final exams that were only a few weeks away.
Three figures were walking past the campus graduation ground which was next to a basketball court as they slowly made their way along the paved road lined with green, well-kept knee-high hedges that led away from the parking lot. One of them was trying to make his case to the other two who seemed reluctant to give in. 
“And we could go hiking,” he continued.
The figure walking at the furthest right snorted loudly at this remark. 
The voice belonged to Luke West. At age eighteen, Luke, was light skinned, had dark silky-smooth hair and dark brown eyes on his pale pointed face. He was a bit slender for his age which he compensated for with his height standing at almost six feet tall. The only drawback to his frame was that it made his broad forehead, that he never heard enough about, even more apparent. Over the years, he had decided to grow out his hair to help slightly cover it up. Though he still had as hard a time hiding it from view with his bangs as he was trying to convince his friends.  
“He actually thinks he’s convincing us,” said a second voice to the one that had snorted. 
This was Dean: Slim, shortest of the three at a just over five feet, dark with a thin face, short dark hair and light brown eyes. For anyone who might have seen or even known him, he seemed like an average lad. And for all intents and purposes he was because even he had yet to uncover what it was that made him very special. Though this had not always been the case because, you see, it all changed almost a year ago when—
“I’m telling you. It’s going to be great,” continued Luke still intent on having his way.
The parking lot was now behind them and they turned left following the side walk beside the road. The low hedges curved with them and they could see it running off into the distance. On both sides of the road were two large fields that served as both football and rugby pitches. A lone jogger could be made out making use of the one closest to them on the opposite side of the hedge for his daily exercise. His pace had slowed down to a trot as heavy beads of sweat trickled down his face under the glaring sun.
“I don’t know,” said Dean.
“What’s there to know? Look, I know you’re not the outdoorsy type but a bit of it can’t kill you. I mean what could go wrong–”
Dean looked at him, a quizzical expression on his face with one of his eyebrows raised as though to say ‘Really, did you just say that?’
However, Luke still determined continued unperturbed. “–besides, isn’t that what you came here for in the first place?”  
He had him there. Dean wasn’t a local per se though he could trace his roots from somewhere in the country. He had been born and raised in Manchester, England where he lived with his mother. She was a very caring and lovely woman and was sad to see him leave despite it being her idea that he should study here. She was planning on moving back to Kenya hopefully later in the year and the plan was that Dean would come, learn and grow accustomed to life here first. She wanted him to see a bit of where she had grown up and more importantly go to the same school she had gone too. She wasn’t at all worried about the drop in quality in the education. He may have seemed like an average lad but Dean was quite intelligent for his age. She knew that he was the kind of person that could succeed anywhere. His father on the other hand wasn’t in the picture anymore. He didn’t like to think about him too much.
He stood contemplating the idea that had been put forth unsure of how to respond. Luke was right. He hadn’t been one to be so taken with the outdoors though it did present a great opportunity for sight-seeing and to immerse himself in the nation’s culture. Dean who walked between them, looked to his right at the other figure, Michael, who made up the trio hoping to gauge his response. But as he had come to expect, he was as hard to read as changes in weather patterns (something a long since unemployed weatherman would know all too well about). He had always found him a bit of an enigma. He may have been reserved but he was nothing like Michael.
He was now medium-built at five foot seven tall, dark skinned spotting and shallow beard. He had a set of wide light brown eyes that almost looked green under the sunlight though they were hidden behind quality designer glasses that helped him better capture reality. 
He at times came on strong, Dean noticed, whenever they interacted with him. This was quite perplexing given he managed to do so without revealing too much information about himself. Even when Dean caught on to his little performance and tried to steer the conversation to his personal life, Michael was always able to misdirect his attention quite expertly… almost as if he had been trained. 
Luke was always the scapegoat for his act, constantly starting fights or insulting him, preying on his short temper which wasn’t had to get to once the slightest reference to his slab of a forehead was made. Dean figured that his act was essential to protect some information that Michael did not want them to know or perhaps even made public. 
He didn’t know his birthday, his second name, the tribe he belonged to and not even about his parents whom he rarely spoke off. All they had managed to get out of him was that he grew up in a neighborhood just outside the city. A bit of information that was quite convenient, Dean realized, as neither he nor Luke knew much about the country seeing as they were both foreigners. Luke and Dean fed up trying to pry whatever information they could from him left it to their own imaginations.
Dean, who was very observant, had not only noticed that he seemed to have been very adept at keeping information to himself but also heard him inadvertently utter a phrase that was in a foreign language in the heat of the moment during an argument he had been having with Luke. Later, he looked it up and realized that it was Russian and from then his imagination begun filling the gaps. His introverted nature that made him stick to himself allowed him to build up a bit of an imagination as he mulled over it for a while. 
He figured that his parents might have been working for some secret corps or organization, which would explain why he was able to keep things to himself. However, from then on, Dean being quite the imaginative one created an entire background story that involved his parents being framed for selling national secrets to a foreign government consequently, leading them to flee from Russia and settle in Kenya where they would remain in hiding. They would then have been vindicated but would decide to stay in Kenya where they then had Michael roughly seventeen or eighteen years past. He speculated as he also didn’t know how old he was. 
I mean you couldn’t write this stuff. 
Luke on the other hand, the least creative of the bunch, figured he had been enrolled in a space program to explore Mars or worse still, that he had been dropped from space in a Mr. Bean intro-like scenario. After spending hours trying to show Luke the foolishness of his theories to no avail, Dean realized that Michael was essential to the group’s dynamic and given the high regard he had of him, stopped enquiring on his past altogether. Though it is quite plain which of the two had come closest.
All that met his gaze was a simple shrug and aloofness as if saying ‘it’s up to you man’. Dean knew he no longer had any excuses in his arsenal to put him down and so, to Luke’s delight, he finally gave in. Though it is to be said, he did so reluctantly. Realizing that the decision would come to him, he asked. 
“Where did you have in mind?” 
A smile streaked across Luke’s face.
“Well there’s this national park that’s a few kilometers north of here that would be a great spot. Plus, it has the most epic name”
“Oh really… And what might that be?” Michael asked now sounding more and more interested by the moment. 
He paused momentarily enjoying the suspense he was creating before finally answering, “Hell’s gate.”
Dean tried to hide his excitement but he couldn’t help but be intrigued. He had come across an article about the park as he had been researching on some of the major projects that were being conducted within the country recently.
It was nearby a major geothermal energy station that had been recently set up by an international private firm that announced its interest in the prospect. The area had large fields of geothermal energy. Dean knew about the firm because its owner and CEO was Professor Damien Matthews. He was one of the most brilliant scientists of this age and his idol. He had met him only once and that one meeting had changed his life. It was the main reason he was studying analytical chemistry in the university. Just so he could be like him when he grows up. 
He also remembered watching it being reported on the news during the first days of his arrival, a day he would not soon forget. Incidentally it happened to be the same day he became acquainted with his friends Luke and Michael. 
They continued making their way to campus where their classes were, discussing all the various equipment they would need including: tents, flash lights, canteens, a first aid kit, beer, rain jackets, navigation tools, binoculars, beer, sleeping bags, utensils, matches, beer. Dean noticed that Luke was very insistent on one particular item and, after a two to one vote, it was decided that Michael would be responsible for the camping equipment. 
It had dawned on him earlier, given his drinking habits, why Luke had decided to complete his tertiary studies here at the equator. 
A former Beverly Hills High student, he had lived with both his parents in a mansion in Los Angeles on the Western side of the Hollywood sign. His dad senator Logan West, ironically, was planning on running for president. Yet here he was enrolled in campus in Kenya, probably just to get as far away from his parents, despite having his pick of schools not just in the states but around the world. 
Dean came to the conclusion that it was probably to take advantage of the lowered drinking age limit he could make great use of. In his homeland in the states, youth weren’t legally allowed to have alcohol until they came of age at twenty-one when they finally get their IDs. In Kenya, the age for alcohol consumption was as low as the age of consent at eighteen years old. It seemed to him that just that would be too childish a reason to change continents. However, when he told them that he had had issues with his father for a long time, it became more apparent why he made the move. Though to shift continents calling him extroverted and a free spirit would be one thing. Saying he had issues with his father would be another. 
Incidentally, this happened to be a hot topic Michael would also use to rile up Luke whenever they tried to pry a bit of information out of him. Beside them on the field, the jogger trotted past them glancing momentarily toward their direction before continuing on his way.
Despite this being one of the few occasions that all three found themselves in each other’s presence, by now the trio had got used to the looks they received from nearby strangers and students as they walked past them. With the high tourism numbers the country recorded on an annual basis, the sight of a white man in their midst had grown less and less of an attraction as it became normalized with their increase and settlement. More recently, it had become an opportunity for hawkers and roadside salespeople, who were eager to take advantage of their little knowledge of foreign exchange, to sell them their goods at a price no local would be a fool enough buy. 
However, most glances that were directed at Luke were more of a curious nature as they wondered why he had come from abroad to study here. Not the worst university by any means but certainly not the best. If only they knew, Dean thought to himself with a slight chuckle. When asked, Luke of course would argue that the school had a great atmosphere, provided decent education and the affordable fees meant that student loans could be manageable and not a life-time burden. He had decided to keep the information about the status of his father in foreign politics to himself as he didn’t need any more attention. 
Though he had grown to like the little attention he got from time to time even though this hadn’t always been the case. During his first days at campus he had been slightly apprehensive about it as he felt he could sense some hostility towards him. He later realized the glares and stares he had been receiving, largely from the male fraternity of the school he noticed, had not been of hostility but of jealousy as a lot of the girls seemed to have taken a liking to him. For some reason they always wanted to feel his hair whenever they got a chance. Even though they were unwilling to let him reciprocate the action themselves. 
This he found out the hard way having being fed up with the bias when he gently tagged at a girl’s hair, whom he had become very friendly with earlier in the semester, only to end up pulling out her entire weave. Underneath he had revealed a short unkept afro, black but with the slightest streak of brown indicating that it had clearly not been washed recently. Luke didn’t have to listen to her harsh response of abuse as the fiery flames of fury and anger smoldering in the narrows of her eyes was evident enough. 
She was only cut short by the sudden outburst of laughter from the people around her completely disrupting the Algebra 102 class they had been attending. She stood up and stormed off. One hand holding her bag while the other on her head trying to hold the weave in place; ignoring Luke’s futile attempts at an apology as well the calls from the lecturer threatening to fail her if she left the class. Threats as empty and vacant as the expression on Luke’s face for she, as well as most of the students in the class, knew that the lecturer would be powerless to fail her without knowing her registration number.
Unfortunate to say, but the friendship between them soured after that and only icy stares met him whenever they ran into each other from then on. One of the many casualties of first-year campus relationships students have that fail to live throughout their four-year stay. Since then, Luke had decided to hang out with his other friends in order to avoid any more complications and drama on only his first year.
“Do we have to keep doing this every time?” moaned Dean.
They were drawing nearer to the gate that led to the campus and ahead of them they could see other students fumbling around their pockets and wallets looking for their student IDs in order to gain admission. At this point it all seemed like clockwork they noticed, as no one seemed to ever have them on hand and only bothered to reach out for them when they got to a certain point; hardly a stone’s throw away from the gate. 
Dean thought it must have made for funny viewing for an alien observer looking down on them. Watching as they conversed with their friends, had their faces buried in their smart phones or went about their business before reaching a few meters from the guards’ post only to start jostling around looking for their cards. He mulled over this thought only to succumb to the very same habit as did Luke and Michael.
They walked past a small huddle of students that had formed as they were having a hard time finding theirs either because they had thrown them into the far reaches of their bags in their rush to get to class in time or were busy making up excuses that fell on deaf ears for they were too reluctant to head back to the dorms where they had left them. 
“Ah! Mzungu. How are you today?” one of the guards, a tall man with a large pointed face alert and poised as a question, exclaimed upon spotting the trio making their way to the gate.
A bit apprehensive when the guard first coined the nickname for him the first time they met; Luke later found out from Michael that ‘Mzungu’ was a Swahili term used to refer to a white person. He would then come to enjoy the pleasantries he shared with the guard as he headed to his classes.
Luke smiled at him and replied, “I’m alright. How about you?”
“I’m good just the same old,” he said indicating to the group that stood in front of him fumbling for their student IDs. “By the way thanks again for the lunch the other day. I really appreciated it.”
“No problem… uh… bro.” Luke responded unsurely. 
Dean saw his cheeks take on a light pink hue and realized he was still having trouble trying to remember the guard’s name and was feeling too embarrassed to ask him having known him for long enough.
He ushered them in and they crossed the gate after their IDs were examined. They nodded slightly at the other guards, one male and the other female, whose faces lightened as they smiled briefly at them before they were replaced by the blank expressions, they wore for most of the day at their dull job. 
It was at this point that they came across their least favorite aspect of the campus. More than the classes, the scheduled assignments, a certain group and the strict rules they constantly had to adhere to, the university had one topological feature that always shot up the list. It was a long steep winding hill at the top of which lay the campus where a one to three-hour lecture awaited them. This prospect was only made slightly more bearable once they had been informed that Geology students that studied there tended to have five-hour long lectures from time to time.
They started trudging up the hill feeling the fatigue from the gravity and the weight of their bags weighing them down. The early mid-morning sun didn’t do much to help their climb and their mood wasn’t done any good as they watched lectures and other personnel drive past them without effort, only slowing down to cross a bump or honk at students who weren’t paying attention to the road. Breathing became heavier and difficult further up the hill; at least for two of them. 
Michael who was the fittest of them seemed to be unaffected by the climb and soon enough was drawing away from the two as they walked slowly behind him.  Despite this, he seemed increasingly infuriated by the passing cars and abruptly turned around.
“Luke you have a car, don’t you?” he asked with an upsweep of his eyebrows, “So what’s the point in leaving it parked at the lot so far away if you could have given us a lift? “ 
“You-think- I- hadn’t- thought- of that,” came the reply between labored breaths as he was bent doubled “but apparently only lecturers and staff are allowed to use the parking lots near the campus.” 
“I can’t believe you’re the one who suggested the camping trip,” said Michael.
“Maybe it wasn’t such a bad idea after all” Dean chimed in trying to chuckle only to let out a gasp of air. All this while starting to clutch around for the stitch in his chest. 
Michael now a bit embarrassed by the sorry state of his friends stared at them momentarily before checking his watch.
“All right, I was planning on getting to my class sometime before nightfall,” he said sarcastically “so I’ll go on ahead while you guys figure out how you’ll split for a respirator. I’ll catch you later after my class is over”
With that he turned around and split into a jog leaving behind him Luke and Dean who were still struggling to catch their breaths bewilderment strewn across their faces.
“I told you he wasn’t human,” Luke said still staring at the disappearing figure as he easily made his way up the hill past the other students also having a difficult time making their way.
“I think we’re the ones who just aren’t fit.” Dean answered “Come on, we have a Chemistry class to get to. We should hurry before we ran out of good seats”
They took a few more breaths before resuming their climb.
“So, what do you think? 50/50.” Luke asked.
Dean looked at him quizzically wondering what he was on about.
“For the respirator,” he continued, “he might be an alien but he’s got a good point.”
Dean shook his head in dismissal and before long they had made their way to a parking lot where a cool breeze as refreshing as a drink of cool water swayed the trees and blew past them slightly ruffling through Luke’s hair; cooling them as they took a moment to take it in. The parking lot was littered with dried yellow leaves that had been dislodged from the branches as they were pushed back and forth in rhythm by the late spring wind. It was filled with cars, some of which they recognized as the ones that passed them on their way to the campus.
Beside it, a broad four storey building stood unwavering and firm despite its short forty year stay on the grounds. However, the slightest traces of time and poor management could be spotted taking its toll in the small cracks that run across the walls between the many windows looking into various offices and classrooms. The cream and blue painting that covered the walls was more than evident despite it peeling away in some regions. Within, lay the admission offices along with the Physical sciences departments. 
At an open window Dean could spot the faintest traces of smoke filtering out probably from a burning cigarette being smoked, he assumed, by a staff worker trying to take the edge off their tedious day. Then again it could have been anyone. He turned around half expecting not to see Luke still walking alongside him as he had also fallen into the poor habit. But there he was still struggling to keep up and wheezing slightly. At least that explained the difficulty he had in climbing the hill. But what about him? He realized that he needed the camp more than he had thought.
They walked past the building, turned right and before long they had made their way to the common room where their class was to be held. They walked in and were greeted by an almost full room with whispers and mummers filling the hall like little hissing fires. They were surprised by this and were only lucky to find two empty seats albeit at the back of the class. Throughout the semester, this had been the first time they had found the class this packed. It seemed the fear of the looming final exams had spread like wild fire among the students and they had decided to finally make their long-postponed acquaintance with their classes. 
The seats were beside a group of girls who were busy watching a music video on a laptop propped in front of them. They could feel their eyes on them as they slid into their seats. Luke noticed one of them staring intently at his scalp. He unconsciously lifted his hand to his hair as he could swear, from the corner of his eyes, he saw her hand twitch ever so slightly as if she was about to pounce on him.
Dean stared at the empty podium below, where their lecturer was supposed to be, as the class had been designed to mimic a theater-like sitting arrangement. Just nowhere near as comfortable. This was to accommodate some of the public’s school classes that had large attendances during the year. All around the well-lit room, stands could be spotted at the far edges. Sitting on top were large speakers that were connected to a Bluetooth microphone. In possession of it was the class prefect, George, who sat at the front of the class. 
He was a tall, thin lad with big hands and big feet as well as a round face and a clean-shaven head. He seemed to always be constantly on the phone, Dean had noticed, before the classes they shared started. He was the only other typical A-student aside from himself he knew. Given that he had made it clear to those who had asked him to sign in their names that he wouldn’t be doing so anymore after the requests had got slightly a bit out of hand, he could only speculate as to who was at the end of the line.
It wasn’t long until their lecturer arrived from the entrance that Dean and Luke had just come through before making his way down the stairs. The Professor, a man who had dove into his forties like a hawk that narrows down on its prey, was a short man with a large protruding belly that must have made it difficult to for him to see his feet. Despite his somewhat young age he didn’t mind the white hair that lay snowy against his black skin and made no efforts to shave or worse still, dye it as many of his peers were prone to do.
Silence cascaded down the hall in his wake as the students became aware of him. George, having noticed him, waylaid him and helped him fit his microphone before he climbed onto the podium. He stood silent, momentarily, his gaze sweeping across the class taking in the large turnout. 
“I swear this class grows larger and larger by the day” he said wiping an imaginary tear from his face regarding them as a child like a proud mother would. “I’m starting to feel like a celebrity.”
This was responded by gales of laughter from the crowd. The joke was not funny but they hoped to get him into a good mood so he may be willing to give them an inkling into what may be prevalent in their coming exams. He waited for the commotion to die down before continuing. 
“For those of you who might not know me and only recognize me from the notes you borrow from your colleagues,” he said enjoying the atmosphere he was creating as some of the students shifted uncomfortably in their seats while others tagged at their collars knowing they were the ones he was referring to. “My name is Professor Daniel Kago. I have been responsible for taking you through your Thermodynamics 101 this semester.”
His voice rebounded authoritatively from the speakers throughout the room. Before long however, that was replaced by the sound of pen on paper as the lecturer droned on while they scribbled down chemical equations and notes they hoped would make more of an appearance in their exams than they had for the classes.
Eventually, over half an hour passed and the class grew stiffly warm due to the large capacity. Dean having read ahead grasped most of what the professor had been teaching and found his mind drifting to the camping trip they were planning on heading. He could see himself rock climbing, walking along the escarpment that was the Great Rift Valley, getting familiar with the native tribes that they might find there and couldn’t help but feel excited.
Luke on the other hand must have felt, as many others, that the class had gone on long enough as Dean saw tears welling up in his eyes as he stifled what must have been his fifth yawn in the past ten minutes. The paperweight pen must have felt like lead in his hands as he tried to take down as much of the notes as he could.
Before long another hour had passed. A lot of heads were slumped against the tables in front of them but not a single one had left the class yet.
“I think we’ll leave the lecture here for today,” said the Professor eventually, rubbing his throat as he felt his voice start to go sore. “Yes… feel free to pack your things and leave.”
Silently, the class started packing their books and closing their bags while some were prodded awake to do the same. However, a large number remained in their seats and soon enough the Professor took notice. Eventually a low chorus of voices could be heard from the sitting mass. ‘Signing sheet’ the voices said in unison indicating that the Professor had forgotten something important. 
“Oh yes that,” came the reply from the speakers, “Did I forget to mention?” (A lot of the class did not like where this was going), “Since the exams are drawing ever so close, I won’t be providing anymore signing sheets. If you have been attending my classes diligently you will find that you will have met the sixty-six percent attendance required by the ministry to do your exams.”
Howls and moans filled the hall even before the words had filed out of his mouth. He had clearly struck a nerve with a large number of the students. They got up and all left very aggrieved while some cursed him under their breath but inwardly, they were fretting as they still didn’t know what that meant for them and their chances of proceeding to the next year.
Dean and Luke sat waiting for the procession to make their way out of the common room and only moved aside to let the group of girls that were sitting beside them pass. They could hear them mutter angrily with some profanity mixed in to their rants. Probably something they had picked up from the video they had found them watching that was hip hop in nature.
Eventually the class had emptied out and they left, following the crowd. Behind them, the Professor was left smiling wickedly as George helped take the microphone of him.
“Gotta admit that was pretty brilliant of him,” Luke said. “He probably figured that half the class would have walked out had he told them that earlier.”
“Yeah I suppose. And please remind me,” said Dean with a little cheek, “who was the one that suggested we should skip most of the classes and turn up later in the semester.” 
“Yeah, yeah… you’ve made your point,” Luke answered brushing him of. “What do we have next anyway?” he continued quickly cutting him off knowing he would not hear the end of it.
Dean hesitated for a while still wanting to enjoy his moment but thought better of it. 
“Economics, I think,” he said finally.
“That’s one of those common classes right.”
“Yeah it is, should be happening near the ICT building. Later in the afternoon though.”
“Oh, alright. We might probably run into Michael then. Wanna go grab some lunch then?”
“Think we’ll be lucky this time?”
“Well you know, third times the charm,” said Luke hopefully.
It was nearing lunch and they decided to head to the canteens to grab a bite to eat.
“Damn!” exclaimed Luke. “Not again. I really thought we would have made it this time.” 
As they had come to expect the shops were completely crowded both inside and out. People were shoving and pushing as the hungry customers tried to claw their way through to get their orders in while others struggled to leave having got what they had requested. It didn’t help matters that the walk-in canteens were as small as a bedsitter apartment with half of its space taken up by the stands the sellers stood behind filled to the brim with various snacks and beverages. While at the same time still making space for some computers and equipment to provide printing services.
All Dean and Luke could see were hands amidst the crowd waving their fists full of money in hope that theirs would be collected so they may get a chance to order and sedate their hunger. Luke smiled sheepishly beside him and he had a feeling why. The scene in front of them was very familiar and Dean couldn’t help but remember the strip club he had been dragged to during Luke’s eighteenth birthday during the semester the previous year. It had been his eighteenth birthday and Dean and Michael had felt obligated to indulge him in his requests. He really hadn’t wasted time making use of the lowered age restrictions.
They exchanged a look agreeing in unison that they were definitely not about to jump into that whole mess. Luckily for them, there were other eateries nearby within the school grounds. They walked towards the opposite direction of the administration offices they had passed on their way to the class.
They descended down a stair case that was beside the area the canteens were set up and came across a mini-hotel that had been set up by the student board ages ago. Ironically, it was mostly popular with lecturers and staff as it served actual whole meals rather than the pastry dishes and soft drinks the students jostled to get. The thought of a healthy balanced meal must have sent shudders to a lot of the student population as they seemed to opt for the teeth rotting diet they so much enjoyed. 
The lecturers and older staff though could be seen staring daggers at them from time to time envying their young bodies knowing their own would be unable to keep up with such treatment. Instead they sunk their teeth into the leafy salads that their wives prepared for them or that they made themselves, feeling as sheepish as they looked, knowing that this was the price to pay for longevity. Ah! To be young again. 
A much smaller line could be seen making their way into the hotel and at the back of it they spotted a familiar face. There they ran into Michael who was also done with his classes. 
“I see you came across that huddled mess back there,” he said still facing forward on the queue but still able to notice them as they approached before they could say a word.
Neither Dean nor Luke were shocked by this behavior. He seemed to notice their presence before they could call out to him even if they approached him from behind.
“I know! It doesn’t matter how early we leave class,” exclaimed Luke as they approached, “they always seem to beat us to the punch.” 
This he meant both figuratively and literally as the canteens also brewed a great concoction of fruit punch that was quite popular among the students. Thus, the long lines.
They stood behind him and filled him in on the events that had just transpired in their previous class and soon he was in fits of laughter. Before long they had made their way into the eatery and it was still a strange sight despite their numerous visits there. 
It seemed more like cross between a storage room and an old-fashioned tea shop. Despite its small size no larger than any standard classroom, there were fifteen small, square tables crammed inside, surrounded by armless plastic chairs with hardly any space between them. At the entrance was a manned register, or in this case ‘womanned’, where a cashier keyed in orders before handing out receipts.
“Hopefully we’re not too late. I’d rather not miss today’s specials,” said Luke anxiously.
 “I think we’ll be fine,” said Michael as the line slowly disappeared into the hotel and they followed in.
It was well lit with the mid-morning daylight sun flooding in from the numerous windows that lined its walls; the beige curtains at the windows were all open but some light filtered through them giving the room a slight brown hue. As they walked through the entrance, ahead of them at the corner they saw the buffet full of various assortments of dishes behind which a man stood ready to take orders from the customers. 
“This place still gives me the creeps,” said Luke with a shudder. 
His reaction had nothing to do with the diet the hotel provided nor the customers that frequented it. Instead, he was referring to the far end of the room on the opposite side, beyond the closely packed chairs and tables where industry-sized gas canisters were stacked together in plain sight in a large pile. It was cooler inside than the hot mid-day sun they had left behind but the smells of the hot foods and strong perfumes worn by its customers mingled to give a sickly blend that would get nauseating after a long stay.
It was half full or half empty. Supposedly, that depended on your perspective of life as a psychiatrist would put it. In this case, Dean felt that it was half full, in keeping with the day he was having. He stared across the room past the tables at the gas canisters at the end that he also chose to believe were empty, putting aside images in his mind of the catastrophe that could unfold were they not. The atmosphere here was a large contrast to the one they had left at the canteens. 
Mostly quiet with only the sound of the television, upholstered on one of the walls, blaring but ignored by a majority of its customers that were seated in groups. Though it did make for a funny sight as they watched the few students and staff make their way to an empty table, plates of food in hand, as they had to struggle with lifting chairs to make way or uprooting seated customers to squeeze past them.
They approached the cashier who was a plump woman and appeared to be quite cheerful in contrast to a lot of the staff that worked at the school. Either all the same thing in mind or just realizing that what Michael had ordered seemed to make for a decent meal, in their hands were three identical receipts that read: one plate of rice, one beef stew and a side of collard greens.
This was quite lucky they found out as they made their way to the buffet ahead of them.
“Don’t take any more orders of beef!” shouted the server across the room. 
They could hear the disgruntled cries from the people that had lined up behind them, upset that they would miss out on the popular item as they realized they would have to make due with a plate of beans instead. 
Not that it was a tasteless dish, far from it. The only hindsight was the foresight they had of their hinds’ reactions as it definitely wasn’t going to help the students retain the soothing aromatic atmosphere their afternoon classes were meant to be. As their digestive systems would struggle to break them down.
“Wait so Cyprian is having beans?” a voice belonging to a student standing in line said indicating to a large thickset lad who was being handed his receipt. 
Realizing he was the one being referred to, he looked back; a sly grin plastered across his face as he winked at him. He seemed to have developed a particular reputation.
“Forget about it,” the voice said as he walked out of the queue, “that Geology class definitely ain’t worth that.” 
With that he made his way out of the canteen and towards the administration offices where he would descend the hill. Not the slightest intention of attending his afternoon class that must have been scheduled to happen in a small poorly ventilated room.
Dean and his friends were eventually served and spent a few minutes juggling their food as well as apologies to the people they disturbed as they made their way to an empty table at the far side of the hotel.
“Whoever set this place up definitely overestimated its popularity,” aired Michael once they had finally slumped down on their seats and placed their plates on the table.
“You’re telling me,” Luke added with a contemptuous glance around the room, “but I’d take this over the line at the canteens any day of the week.”
“Speaking of which, what day did you have in mind for the trip?” Dean asked Luke who was seated beside as he shoved a spoon-full of rice and beef curry into his mouth. It was quite delicious.
“I think sometime around Easter,” Luke responded between mouthfuls, “that should give us plenty of time for a stay.”
Dean thought that it was a great idea since neither Luke nor himself would be bothering to head all the way back to their home for such a short holiday. He then turned his head to Michael who was sat opposite him.
“Is that good with you,” he asked remembering he was the only one of the three who lived nearby and might have made other plans.
“That should be perfect. My folks aren’t the overly religious type so I shouldn’t have any plans then. Plus, its two weeks away so it should give me plenty time to gather everything we need.”
“… Yes, yes as well as the beer,” he added as he noticed the gaze Luke had shot at him all the while shaking his head.
They continued having their lunch in silence only breaking it to iron out all the details for their trip that was a few weeks away. They were all starting to get excited.

                                                                               
